cleora_docs/docs/configuration.md, before:

---
Title: Cleora Configuration
Weight: 10
---

# Synopsis

**cleora** [OPTIONS] [inputs]...

## Configuration Options

**Input Files**  

 - **Usage:** Positional arguments `[inputs]...` 
 - **Description:** Paths to input files  

**File Type**  

   - **Option:** `--type` or `-t`
   - **Description:** Specifies the input file type.
   - **Possible values:** `tsv` or `json`

!!! info   

    In a TSV file, columns should be separated by TABs, and values within one column's row should be separated by spaces. In the JSON format, multiple values are provided as an array.  

**Dimension**  

   - **Option:** `--dimension` or `-d`
   - **Description:** Sets the embedding dimension size.

**Number of Iterations**  

   - **Option:** `--number-of-iterations` or `-n`
   - **Description:** Sets the maximum number of iterations for the embedding process.

**Columns**  

   - **Option:** `--columns` or `-c`
   - **Description:** Specifies column names (maximum of 12) with modifiers: `[transient::, reflexive::, complex::]`.
   - **Modifiers:**
     - `transient` — The column is used in the graph creation, but for the entities in this column embeddings won't be calculated.  
       **Example:**  
       There are two columns in our data `user` and `product`, 
       each row stores user id and id of a product user bought. We want to 
       create embeddings of products, but users are what connects products, 
       which are bought together. `User` is then a transient column used to 
       create graph and compute product embeddings. In this case user 
       embeddings won't be created. 
       Transient columns are connected with star expansion of hyperedges.  

     - `complex` — The column contains multiple entities (e.g., products, brands, transactions); in TSV format entities within the same column should be separated by spaces, in JSON format they should be stored in an array.  
       **Example:**   
       There are two columns in our data, one column stores user id and 
       the other column stores all products bought by this user. The products 
       column is then a complex column.

     - `reflexive` — Each entity in the columns is connected with any other entity in the same column field . Every reflexive column will result in a separate graph and separate output file.  
       **Example:**   
       There is a column in data storing all products from one 
       basket. In the created graph each product from a basket is connected 
       with any other product in this basket.  
       The column is connected with clique expansion of hyperedges.

     - `ignore` — The column won't be included in any graph and no output file is created for this field.

   - **Allowed combinations:** `transient`, `complex`, `transient::complex`, `reflexive::complex`.

   The picture below presents data examples with column configurations and resulting graphs. Input file required for this example should consist TAB-separated column, and values within one column row should be separated by spaces:

   ```
   u1 <\t> p1 p2 p3
   u2 <\t> p2 p4
   ```

   ![examples use case of column modifiers](_static/cleora-columns.png)

**Output Directory**  

   - **Option:** `--output-dir` or `-o`
   - **Description:** Specifies the output directory for files with generated embeddings.

**Relation Name**  

   - **Option:** `--relation-name` or `-r`
   - **Description:** Sets the name of the relation for output file name generation.
   - **Default:** `emb`

**Prepend Field Name**  

   - **Option:** `--prepend-field-name` or `-p`
   - **Description:** Determines whether to add the field name to the entity identifier in the output.
   - **Possible values:** `0` or `1`
   - **Default:** `0`

**Log Every N**  

   - **Option:** `--log-every-n` or `-l`
   - **Description:** Logs output every N lines.
   - **Default:** 10000

**In-Memory Embedding Calculation**  

   - **Option:** `--in-memory-embedding-calculation` or `-e`
   - **Description:** Chooses between calculating embeddings in memory (0) or using memory-mapped files for efficiency (1). 
   - **Possible values:** `0` or `1`
   - **Default:** `1`

**Output Format**  

   - **Option:** `-f`
   - **Description:** Sets the format of the output file. Possible formats are `.txt` (`textfile`) and `.npy` (`numpy`). 
   - **Possible values:** `textfile` or `numpy`
   - **Default:** `textfile`

**Seed**

   - **Option:** `--seed` or `-s`
   - **Description:** sets integer seed for embedding initialization

**Version**

   - **Option:** `--version` or `-v`
   - **Description:** Prints Cleora version information. 

## Examples of Cleora Configuration

For input file1.tsv:
```
user1    product7 product2 product10
user2    product11
user3    product1 product2 product11 product13
```
run:
```bash
chmod +x cleora
./cleora --type tsv \
         --columns="user complex::reflexive::product" \
         --dimension 128 \
         --number-of-iterations 5 \
         --relation-name=test_relation_name \
         --prepend-field-name 0 \
         file1.tsv 
```

> **Note:** Before the first run, ensure that the Cleora binary file has execute permissions (`chmod +x`).

Commit message:

change layout and add configuration details

cleora_docs/docs/configuration.md, after:

---
Title: Cleora Configuration
Weight: 10
---

# Synopsis

**cleora** [OPTIONS] [inputs]...

## Configuration Options

**Input Files**  

 - **Usage:** Positional arguments `[inputs]...` 
 - **Description:** Paths to input files  

**File Type**  

   - **Option:** `--type` or `-t`
   - **Description:** Specifies the input file type.
   - **Possible values:** `tsv` or `json`

!!! info   

    In a TSV file, columns should be separated by TABs, and values within one column's row should be separated by spaces. In the JSON format, multiple values are provided as an array.  

**Dimension**  

   - **Option:** `--dimension` or `-d`
   - **Description:** Sets the embedding dimension size.

**Number of Iterations**  

   - **Option:** `--number-of-iterations` or `-n`
   - **Description:** Sets the maximum number of iterations for the embedding process.

**Columns**  

   - **Option:** `--columns` or `-c`
   - **Description:** Specifies column names (maximum of 12) with modifiers: `[transient::, reflexive::, complex::]`.
   - **Modifiers:**
     - `transient` — The column is used in the graph creation, but for the entities in this column embeddings won't be calculated.  
       **Example:**  
       There are two columns in our data `user` and `product`, 
       each row stores user id and id of a product user bought. We want to 
       create embeddings of products, but users are what connects products, 
       which are bought together. `User` is then a transient column used to 
       create graph and compute product embeddings. In this case user 
       embeddings won't be created. 
       Transient columns are connected with star expansion of hyperedges.  

     - `complex` — The column contains multiple entities (e.g., products, brands, transactions); in TSV format entities within the same column should be separated by spaces, in JSON format they should be stored in an array.  
       **Example:**   
       There are two columns in our data, one column stores user id and 
       the other column stores all products bought by this user. The products 
       column is then a complex column.

     - `reflexive` — Each entity in the columns is connected with any other entity in the same column field . Every reflexive column will result in a separate graph and separate output file.  
       **Example:**   
       There is a column in data storing all products from one 
       basket. In the created graph each product from a basket is connected 
       with any other product in this basket.  
       The column is connected with clique expansion of hyperedges.

     - `ignore` — The column won't be included in any graph and no output file is created for this field.

   - **Allowed combinations:** `transient`, `complex`, `transient::complex`, `reflexive::complex`.

   The picture below presents data examples with column configurations and resulting graphs. Input file required for this example should consist TAB-separated columns, and space-seperated values within one column row:

   ```
   u1 <\t> p1 p2 p3
   u2 <\t> p2 p4
   ```

   ![examples use case of column modifiers](_static/cleora-columns.png)

**Output Directory**  

   - **Option:** `--output-dir` or `-o`
   - **Description:** Specifies the output directory for files with generated embeddings.

**Relation Name**  

   - **Option:** `--relation-name` or `-r`
   - **Description:** Sets the name of the relation for output file name generation.
   - **Default:** `emb`
 
   **Example:**  
   The file with embeddings, generated based on two columns `user` and `product`, is by default called `emb__user__product.out`. When we set `--relation-name` to `purchase`, the file will be called `purchase__user__product.out`.

**Prepend Field Name**  

   - **Option:** `--prepend-field-name` or `-p`
   - **Description:** Determines whether to add the field name to the entity identifier in the output.
   - **Possible values:** `0` or `1`
   - **Default:** `0`

   **Example:**   
   Consider an example of embeddings generated for the `product` column. In each row of the output file, we have the product identifier, the number of nodes with this product (indicating in how many rows of our data the product occurred), and the generated embedding:

   ```
   1388 120 0.03775605 -0.00534315 -0.07677672 -0.033221997 -0.11690934 0.07979556 -0.047545113 0.04019881 0.11354096 0.09381865 0.0139150405 -0.041348357 
   ```
   where the first number is the product ID, the second is the number of nodes, and the subsequent numbers comprise the embedding vector.

   If we set --prepend-field-name to 1, we will get:
   ```
   product__1388 120 0.03775605 -0.00534315 -0.07677672 -0.033221997 -0.11690934 0.07979556 -0.047545113 0.04019881 0.11354096 0.09381865 0.0139150405 -0.041348357 
   ```

**Log Every N**  

   - **Option:** `--log-every-n` or `-l`
   - **Description:** Logs output every N lines.
   - **Default:** 10000

**In-Memory Embedding Calculation**  

   - **Option:** `--in-memory-embedding-calculation` or `-e`
   - **Description:** Chooses between calculating embeddings in memory (0) or using memory-mapped files for efficiency (1). 
   - **Possible values:** `0` or `1`
   - **Default:** `1`

**Output Format**  

   - **Option:** `-f`
   - **Description:** Sets the format of the output file. Possible formats are `.txt` (`textfile`) and `.npy` (`numpy`). 
   - **Possible values:** `textfile` or `numpy`
   - **Default:** `textfile`

**Seed**

   - **Option:** `--seed` or `-s`
   - **Description:** sets integer seed for embedding initialization

**Version**

   - **Option:** `--version` or `-v`
   - **Description:** Prints Cleora version information. 

## Examples of Cleora Configuration

For input file1.tsv:
```
user1    product7 product2 product10
user2    product11
user3    product1 product2 product11 product13
```
run:
```bash
chmod +x cleora
./cleora --type tsv \
         --columns="user complex::reflexive::product" \
         --dimension 128 \
         --number-of-iterations 5 \
         --relation-name=test_relation_name \
         --prepend-field-name 0 \
         file1.tsv 
```

> **Note:** Before the first run, ensure that the Cleora binary file has execute permissions (`chmod +x`). 

## Output Format
Cleora outputs a file for each relation configured based on columns in data and provided columns modifiers. For details see [Cleora Algorithm Overview](cleora_algorithm.md). Outpt files is saved in current location or under `--output-directory`. Each row in the file consist of:

- entity id — the id of the entity for which embedding is generated; this is the first number in a row
- number of nodes — how many nodes for given entity id were created; this is the second number in a row
- embedding —  the embeddign generated for a given entity id; all subsequent numbers

**Example:**  
We use Cleora to create embeddings for `product` column. We get the output file where each row stores product id, information how many times the product occured in input data (which translates to number of nodes), and the embedding of this particular product:

```
1388 120 0.03775605 -0.00534315 -0.07677672 -0.033221997 -0.11690934 0.07979556 -0.047545113 0.04019881 0.11354096 0.09381865 0.0139150405 -0.041348357 
```
